# Hotel-Booking-Dashboard
## About
This project was created in fulfillment of the Data Analyst FestMan BootCamp. It analyzes the hotel booking data of travellers originating from Southeastern Asia

## Insights
1. _Bookings_: Over a 10-year period there have been approx. **66.5 thousand** bookings have been made by travelers leaving Southeast Asia. There is a steady increase in the number of bookings per year, likely showing a robust economy with more of the population being able to afford travel each year
2. _Demographic Distribution_: There have been more booking by female customers (**33380**) than male (**33144**). There are more bookings by middle-aged customers (**37.5%**) than other age groups
3. _Trips_: Most of the customers travel from Thailand. Most customers travel to New Zealand, however this value is in favour of male travelers. Most female customers travel to Nepal. Youths travel to Egypt the most, Middle-aged customers to Colombia and the elderly to Israel 
4. _Payment methods_: The most popular payment method is via Internet banking, most likely by use of prepaid reservations of the hotels. The least popular involves the use of cash which is used mostly by women. Men make use of Internet banking and debit cards the most. Women are also the highest users of digital wallets for payments. 
5. _Booking Fee, Profit and Discount_: Booking fees progressively increased each year until 2014 where there was a **33% fall** in booking revenue and in turn a **34% fall** in profits as well
6. _Origin country_: Trips originating from Cambodia have the least amount of bookings of all time and exhibited a massive drop in booking revenue and profit in 2019 (about **55%** in these metrics). Trips originating from Malaysia exhibited the largest drop in booking revenue and profit in a single year (about **73%** each in 2019). Trips originating from Indonesia also exhibit a drop in booking revenue and profit in 2019 (about **21%** each). Meanwhile trips originating from the Philippines recorded the highest yearly increase in revenue and profit (**94%** and **91%** respectively) followed by Thailand (**84%** and **83%** respectively)
7. Destination Country: There is a normal correlation between the yearly revenue and profit except in 2019 trips arriving in Kenya (**1.0% increase** in revenue but **0.5% decrease** in profit) and 2016 trips arriving in Japan (**0.3% decrease** in revenue but **4.0% increase** in profit). The most common demographic in the Japan trips are middle-aged females
